When you learned about repeated and parameterized tests,
you saw how JUnit can inject some types of parameters at runtime,
like test information parameters of type RepetitionInfo,
TestInfo, and TestReporter.
You may also remember that JUnit uses extension classes that
implement the interface ParameterResolver to inject those types of
parameters like RepetitionInfoParameterResolver,
TestInfoParameterResolver, and TestReporterParameterResolver.
Here you can see the methods of the ParameterResolver
interface you have to implement.
SupportsParameter must return true if the extension class can
handle the parameter given a context object with information
about the parameter and the context in which the extension is
executed and ResolveParameter,
which is only called if supports parameter returns through for
the same parameter and extension context,
returning an instance of the parameter to be injected to the test method.
You can use ParameterResolver extensions in methods
annotated with Test and TestFactory, lifecycle methods annotated,
for example, with BeforeEach and AfterEach, and class constructors.
So let me show you how to create an extension that implements ParameterResolver.
Here's the test class I used in the previous clip, but only with the
BeforeEach method and without the lifecycle extension.
Now let's say that instead of having the RewardService as an instance variable,
I want to have it as a parameter of each test method, like this and this.
Now, as each method is going to receive a new instance,
I'm going to delete the setUp method and the instance variable. If I run
the test as it is right now, an exception will be thrown,
ParameterResolutionException: No ParameterResolver registered
for parameter RewardByConversionService.
All right, let's fix this.
I'm going to create a new class, RewardByConversionParameterResolver.
This class is going to implement ParameterResolver. And
here are the methods I need to overwrite.
Let me just paste the import statements. Now in supportsParameter, I
need to check if the type of the parameter is
RewardByConversionService. So return, and from the parameterContext,
I'm going to get the parameter. And I'm going to check if its type is
equal to the RewardByConversionService class.
Now in the resolveParameter method,
I'm going to create a new instance of the
RewardByConversionService class, set its properties to some
values that we'll use as default values for the tests.
This way, each method will receive a new instance every time it's executed.
You may be wondering, can we create just one instance and
use it for all the methods of the class?
Yes we can, but let's not get ahead of ourselves.
You'll see how to do something similar in a few clips. For now, the
only thing we're missing is to register the extension.
We can do this programmatically by adding a field for the extension
and annotating this field with RegisterExtension.
The field must not be private.
But if the field is static,
the extension will be registered after extensions
registered at the class level with ExtendWith.
If it's an instance field,
the extension will be registered after the Test class has
been instantiated and after each registered test instance
post processor extension.
Besides, if the Test class has a PER_CLASS lifecycle, the instance
extension will be registered before extensions that are registered
at the method level with ExtendWith.
Otherwise, it will be registered after those extensions.
For this example, it doesn't matter if the field is static or not.
So if I run the class,
you'll see that the RewardService was injected because everything is working fine.